# Chapter 8 - Goroutines and Channels

## Example: Concurrent Clock Server

### Exercise 8.1
Modify `clock2` to accept a port number, and write a program, `clockwall`, that
acts as a client of clock servers at once, reading the times from each one and
displaying the results in a table, akin to the wall of clocks seen in some
business offices. If you have access to geographically distributed computers,
run instances remotely; otherwise run local instances on different ports with
fake time-zones.
```
  $ TZ=US/Eastern     ./clock2 -port 8010 &
  $ TZ=Asia/Tokyo     ./clock2 -port 8020 &
  $ TZ=Europe/London  ./clock2 -port 8030 &
  $ clockwall NewYork=localhost:8010 Tokyo=localhost:8010 London=localhost:8010
```

### Exercise 8.2
Implement a concurrent File Transfer Protocol (FTP) server. The server should
interpret commands from each client such as `cd` to change directory, `ls` to
list a directory, `get` to send the contents of a file, and `close` to close the
connection. You can use the standard `ftp` command as the client, or write your
own.

## Unbuffered Channels

### Exercise 8.3
In `netcat3`, the interface value `conn` has the concrete type `*net.TCPConn`,
which represents a TCP connection. A TCP connection consists of two halves that
may be closed independently using it's `CloseRead` and `CloseWrite` methods.
Modify the main goroutine of `netcat3` to close only the write half of the
connection so that the program will continue to print the final echoes from the
`reverb1` server even after the standard input has been closed. (Doing this for
the `reverb` server is harder; see Exercise 8.4.)

## Looping in Parallel

### Exercise 8.4
Modify the `reverb2` server to use a `sync.WaitGroup` per connection to count
the number of active echo goroutines. When it falls to zero, close the write
half of the TCP connection as described in Exercise 8.3. Verify that your
modified `netcat3` client from that exercise waits for the final echoes of
multiple concurrent shouts, even after the standard input has been closed.

### Exercise 8.5
Take an existing CPU-bound sequential program, such as the Mandelbrot program of
Section 3.3 of the 3D surface computation of Section 3.2, and execute its main
loop in parallel using channels for communication. How much faster does it run
on a multiprocessor machine? What is the optimal number of goroutines to use?

## Example: Concurrent Web Crawler

### Exercise 8.6
Add depth-limiting to the concurrent crawler. That is, if the user sets
`-depth=3`, then only URLs reachable by at most three links will be fetched.

### Exercise 8.7
Write a concurrent program that creates a local mirror of a website, fetching
each reachable page and writing it to a director on the local disk. Only pages
within the original domain (for instance `golang.org`) should be fetched. URLs
within mirrored pages should be altered as needed so that they refer to the
mirrored page, not the original.

### Exercise 8.8
Using a `select` statement, add a timeout to the echo server from Section 8.3
so that it disconnects any client that shouts nothing within 10 seconds.

## Example: Concurrent Directory Traversal

### Exercise 8.9
Write a version of `du` that compute and periodically displays separate totals
for each of the `root` directories.

## Cancellation

### Exercise 8.10
HTTP requests may be cancelled by closing the optional `Cancel` channel in the
`http.Request` struct. Modify the web crawler of Section 8.6 to support
cancellation.

Hint: the `http.Get` convenience function does not give you an opportunity to
customize a `Request`. Instead, create the request using `http.NewRequest`, set
its `Cancel` field, then perform the request by calling
`http.DefaultClient.Do(req)`.

### Exercise 8.11
Following the approach of `mirroredQuery` in Section 8.4.4, implement a variant
of `fetch` that requests several URLs concurrently. As soon as the first
response arrives, cancel the other requests.

## Example: Chat Server

####Â Exercise 8.12
Make the broadcaster announce the current set of clients to each new arrival.
This requires that the `clients` set and the `entering` and `leaving` channels
record the client name too.

### Exercise 8.13
Make the chat server disconnect idle clients, such as those that have sent no
messages in the last five minutes. Hint: calling `conn.Close()` in another
goroutine unblocks active `Read` calls such as the one done by `input.Scan()`.

### Exercise 8.14
Change the chat server's network protocol so that each client provides its name
on entering. Use that name instead of the network address when prefixing each
message with its sender's identity.

### Exercise 8.15
Failure of any client program to read data in a timely manner ultimately causes
all clients to get stuck. Modify the broadcaster to skip a message rather that
wait if a client writer is not ready to accept it. Alternatively, add buffering
to each client's outgoing message channel so that most messages are not dropped;
the broadcaster should use a non-blocking send to this channel.
